
Turkey’s long-term leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan is going up against opposition candidate Kemal Kilicdaroglu in Sunday’s run-off presidential election.

The build-up to the first round suggested a narrow race, with Erdogan facing unprecedented pressure after 20 years in power.

Instead Erdogan defied expectations and only narrowly missed out on winning outright.

The vote took place nearly four months after a February 6 earthquake killed more than 50,000 people and displaced more than more than 5.9 million across southern Turkey and northern Syria. It also came amid a serious economic crisis and what analysts say is democratic erosion under Erdogan’s government.

Here’s what you need to know about the run-off vote:

How do Turkey’s elections work?
Turkey holds elections every five years. Presidential candidates can be nominated by parties that have passed the 5% voter threshold in the last parliamentary election, or those who have gathered at least 100,000 signatures supporting their nomination.

The candidate who receives more than 50% of votes in the first round is elected president, but if no candidate gets a majority vote, the election goes to a second round between the two candidates who received the highest number of votes in the first round.

01 erdogan cnn interview 051923 GRAB
Erdogan hails 'special relationship' with Putin ahead of crucial Turkey runoff vote
Voter turnout in the first round on May 14 stood at nearly 90% according to the Supreme Election Council (YSK), yet no single candidate received an absolute majority, taking the election to a runoff.

Erdogan received 49.52% of votes in the first round, giving him a five-point lead over Kilicdaroglu. His bloc won a comfortable majority in the legislature in a parallel parliamentary vote.

The runoff will take place Sunday. Polls open at 8:00 a.m. local time (1 a.m. ET) and close at 5 p.m. (10 a.m. ET). Results are expected after 9 p.m. (2 p.m. ET) local time.

Who are the contenders?
The two candidates with the highest number of votes, Erdogan and Kilicdaroglu, are running.

The longest serving Turkish leader since the modern Turkish republic was established, Erdogan has been in power for two decades, first as the country’s prime minister and then as president.

The 69-year-old, who began his rule with widespread religious freedoms and an economic boom, has over the years consolidated power and saw Turkey’s $800 billion economy fall to a disastrous slump amid unorthodox fiscal policies.

Right-wing Ancestral Alliance candidate Sinan Ogan Sinan Ogan, who emerged with 5.17% of the votes in the first round, on Monday said that he was endorsing Erdogan in the runoff and urged his voters to support him.

Sinan Ogan said he would back Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the runoff.
Turkey's third-placed presidential election candidate backs Erdogan
Ogan had conditioned his endorsement of either candidate on hardened policies towards refugees and some Kurdish groups he perceives as terrorists.

